>> Scott Moss: What is an LLM?
Well, I guess it's right there.
I was gonna ask,
does anybody know what an LLM stands for?
It's right there,
it's a large language model.
But what does that actually mean?
So I'll kinda talk through
how I understand it, and
what's the difference between
a large language model versus all
the AI that's been happening before
the large language models come to present.
And how is that different?
So essentially, a large language model
is a, first of all, what is a model?
If you're kind of new to AI,
a model is just,
it's a file that's a set of statistics.
It's a set of basically,
some trained system that has a set
of probabilities based off of some
input that somebody trained it on.
So a good example might be a classifier
that can detect cancer inside of X-rays.
So, someone will create a system that
takes these images of X-rays and
they will label these images as like,
this has cancer, this doesn't have cancer.
And then they would train that on an AI,
and
then that AI can correlate
all these different pixels,
they turn that image into a matrix
of pixels and RGB values.
And it can correlate those RGB values and
pixels to whether or
not this image has cancer or not,
and then it can be corrected.
So if the AI gets it wrong, you can
introduce things like punishing it.
So it can go down a different
path on the probability.
So if you think about decision making,
you can go left or you can go right.
So like, if you say that, hey, that was
wrong, then maybe next time, when it gets
to that decision, it'll go left instead of
right, and then it'll see if that's right.
And just does that over and over and
over again until it reaches a point
where you're not punishing it anymore.
And then now you have this file of these
probabilities that have some form of
accuracy on the data that you train.
And I would say that's a very specific set
of AI, but that kind of goes in towards
what you would see with LLMs and
diffusion models and things like that.
And obviously, there's different types
of AI, but a model is mostly just,
represents some statistics,
some probabilities.
There's this other thing inside
of it called a neural network.
We're not gonna talk about that,
nobody knows how that works.
Even the people that make neural networks
have no idea what's inside of them,
which is kind of trippy,
if you think about it.
But an LLM is a variation of that.
So what they discovered was,
they can get pretty good at
having a model predict what
the most probable next word
in a sentence should be.
At the end of the day,
that's all an LLM is,
it's really good at
predicting the next thing.
And it's not something new,
we've tried to do this in the past, and
there have been tons of models
that predict things for you.
Like, imagine typing into
Google on search, and
it shows you some prediction
of what you might search.
That's always kind of been there, but that
is way different than what an LLM does.
An LLM, what it does is, it takes
an account of everything you've typed so
far up until this point, every single
sentence, and then that allows it to
keep more context as it's trying to
predict what the next character is.
We haven't had that before.
And we'll kinda talk about that
architecture a little ways down on this
page, but high level,
that's kinda what an LLM is.
It's a model that's really good
at predicting the next thing.
So sometimes it feels sentient sometimes,
but in reality,
it's just predicting the next thing,
which as you know, if it has to get
good at predicting the next thing,
then has to be trained on a lot of stuff.
So that's where the word large comes from.
It's very large, cuz it has to be
trained on billions of parameters,
words, sentences, for
it to understand what the next thing is.
So, that's my rant on LLMs.
The part about the LLM
keeping track of context and
knowing what to do,
that's something called transformers.
So I'm just gonna go down to that part
because I think it's interesting.
So, here's a white paper, created by some
folks, I think they were at Google at
the time when they made this, and
it's called, Attention Is All You Need.
Now, this is super deep, but I do highly
recommend people looking into this.
You do not need to know this at all to
do anything that we're gonna be doing.
And unless you're gonna be a research
scientist, literally, this doesn't matter.
But the reason I'm recommending you
read this is because of how much I
benefited from just understanding
what transformers were.
And it helped me understand
the limitations of what an AI or
an LLM can do.
But basically, they describe
this concept of transformers.
And you're gonna hear that so much,
that if you ever heard of GPT,
the T in GPT is transformers.
So attention is something that
they describe as what you get from
transformers.
So I highly recommend
reading this white paper.
If you get deep into the AI space,
you'll be waking up and
reading white papers every single day.
So if you're really serious about that,
you can just start now.
But this is probably the first
one I recommend reading.
They describe how this transformer
architecture is really all you need to
have some type of GPT-based model that
is really good at predicting stuff.
And from there the bet is like,
let's just throw more data at it and
then it'll get smarter.
And that's kind of where we
are right now as a society is,
throw more data at something
that's transformer based and
see how better it can get
at predicting things.
And we haven't really
deviated from that yet.
So, I highly recommend reading that it.
The trick is, if this just sounds crazy or
whatever, take it,
throw it into ChatGPT or Claude and
say, tell me about this.
[LAUGH] I'm a software engineer, I make
React apps, tell me what this means, and
it'll tell you, right?
So, use AI to to learn
more about this stuff.
Highly recommend it.
There's some more stuff in here about
like training processes and stuff.
I don't think I'm gonna dive
into this because it's,
I don't think you're ever gonna
do any LLM training in your life.
Unless someone in here or someone online
or whoever's watching this is gonna go be,
maybe they're doing LLM ops.
Well, even LLM ops, probably not doing
training foundational models from scratch.
But like, yeah, I don't think anyone's
gonna be doing a lot of training and
stuff, just know that you need a lot
of information to train a model, yes.
What are tokens?
Basically, tokens, depending on
the model and how you encode it,
are three to four characters.
So if you have a sentence, every three or
four characters is a token.
It's broken down that way because the AI
is trying to understand things like,
I'm gonna get really deep here.
[LAUGH] So there's a numerical
representation of all the words that
the AI understands, and
those are called vectors and embeddings.
And they represent the semantics,
the meaning of a word in a numerical way.
So like you might have, depending on
how many dimensions that embedding is,
let's say it's 1536.
So you got 1,536 numbers
inside of an array, and
those numbers will represent the meaning
of one token or something, right?
So the tokens are just the the alpha
numeric way of representing
those vectors and embeddings,
but the AI sees it as numbers.
And the reason why is because then it
could do math to kinda figure out how
things are similar.
So like, if you imagine, if you had, I
don't know, an array of three numbers and
another ray of three numbers and you threw
them on a plot, a three-dimensional plot.
You could do math to figure out how
close those things were in relation.
Okay, that's very similar to how
some of the stuff works with AI, but
across many dimensions, not just three
dimensions, but 1,500 dimensions, right?
So it's like,
you can't even plot that out in your head.
What does that even look like?
Yeah, we don't know, but all you need
to know is, tokens are every three or
four characters, that's a token.
And the reason you need to know that
is because every LLM is charging you
based on how many tokens you give it and
how many tokens it gives you.
So you need to understand
that token count, and
that is the only reason you
need to know tokens, yes.
Does the size of the token change
model to model or API to API?
Yeah, good question, so, token limits are
determined by the model that you're using,
and some models have what they call,
it's called a context window size.
It's the size of how many tokens you
can give this thing before it dies.
So every model is different,
there's generic models that strive to
have the biggest context window so
you can fit as many tokens as you want.
There's very specific models that
are hyper-focused on one thing that don't
really have big windows for tokens.
So yeah, look at the documentation for
the model that you use and
it'll tell you how many tokens it can
handle on the input and the output.
And if you go beyond that,
it'll just break.
It'll just tell you,
sorry, I can't do that.
And the reason that is, is for
a lot of reasons, but it's like,
it could be a physical thing too, right?
When you think of all these tokens, this
stuff has to be held in the GPU memory.
So I'm not sure how much you
might know about GPUs, but
GPUs have memory,
they have RAM associated with them, and
you can only host so much of that in
memory before you run out of memory.
So there's that part, and then there's
also just the limit of that model and how
it was trained, and everything that can be
fit into its process, its neural network.
So there's a lot of limits on that.
But people are working hard
to create million plus token
size foundational models that
solve problems and stuff.
But at the end of the day, yeah, you're
going to run into a token problem and
there's no way around it today.
No good way.
We'll talk about different strategies.